sops/adding_user_to_sso.asciidoc, before:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
// end header
= Creating users in MAS-SSO for Data Plane OSD clusters

toc::[]

== Description
This SOP aims to describe the process of creating users in MAS-SSO for Data Plane OSD cluster access.

== Prerequisites
You will need access to:

* A member of the RTS Team
* The `Rhoas-kafka-sre` realm in MAS-SSO:
** https://keycloak-mas-sso-stage.apps.app-sre-stage-0.k3s7.p1.openshiftapps.com/auth/admin/rhoas-kafka-sre/console/#/realms/rhoas-kafka-sre/users[Stage]
** https://identity.api.openshift.com/auth/admin/rhoas-kafka-sre/console/#/realms/rhoas-kafka-sre/users[Prod]
* OCM credentials to log in as the creator of the data plane cluster, which can be found in Vault
** https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[Prod]
** https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/stage/service/credentials[Stage]

== Execute/Resolution
=== Creating the user in SSO
[NOTE]
Steps 1-5 need to be done by a member of the RTS team

1. Login into MAS SSO using your credentials Username:`kerberos`
2. Navigate to the `Rhoas-kafka-sre` realm and then to users in the sidebar on the left.
3. Create the new user by clicking on the add user button on the right-hand side
4. Give the user a username and any other information you want to add. Make sure the user enabled slider is set to on.
+
image::images/add_user.png[]
+
5. Once you click save, you will be able to give the user credentials. This is done by clicking the credentials tab and giving them a temporary password which the user changes when they first log in.
+
The temporary password that new users should be assigned can be found in https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/managed-services/show/rts/production_data_plane_clusters_temp_password[Vault]. The username and password can be distributed to the user over Instant Messaging (e.g. Google Hangouts).
+
image::images/add_creds.png[]

=== Giving the user permission in OSD data plane cluster
1. To give the users permissions, you will need ocm permissions to log in as the service account that created the data plane
* Prod: `ocm login --url=https://api.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>`
* Stage: `ocm login --url=https://api.stage.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>`
2. Add or remove a user in the user.yaml file
3. `chmod +x permissions.sh`
4. `./permissions.sh -a` to add users
5. `./permissions.sh -r` to remove users

== Validate
1. Check that the users have been created using the ocm get command from the SOP doc.
2. Make sure the users can log in to the data plane cluster using the kafka_sre idp option
3. Ensure they have the relevant permissions in the cluster by checking the groups in the user management tab of the cluster

== Troubleshooting
1. If people are unable to login ensure the username specified in SSO is the same as the one your giving permissions to in `user.json`

Commit message:

Updated user creation sops to include more detail

sops/adding_user_to_sso.asciidoc, after:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
// end header
= Creating users in MAS-SSO for Data Plane OSD clusters

toc::[]

== Description
This SOP aims to describe the process of creating users in MAS-SSO for Data Plane OSD cluster access.

NOTE: This SOP is used to give users `cluster-admin` access to data-plane clusters. If you need to give a user(s) read-only access to a data-plane cluster(s), follow the steps in https://github.com/bf2fc6cc711aee1a0c2a/kas-sre-sops/blob/main/sops/osd_read_only_user_access.asciidoc[this] SOP

== Prerequisites
You will need access to:

* A member of the RTS Team
* The `Rhoas-kafka-sre` realm in MAS-SSO:
** https://keycloak-mas-sso-stage.apps.app-sre-stage-0.k3s7.p1.openshiftapps.com/auth/admin/rhoas-kafka-sre/console/#/realms/rhoas-kafka-sre/users[Stage]
** https://identity.api.openshift.com/auth/admin/rhoas-kafka-sre/console/#/realms/rhoas-kafka-sre/users[Prod]
* OCM credentials to log in as the creator of the data plane cluster, which can be found in Vault
** https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[Prod]
** https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/stage/service/credentials[Stage]

== Execute/Resolution
=== Creating the user in SSO
[NOTE]
Steps 1-5 need to be done by a member of the RTS team

1. Login into MAS SSO using your credentials Username:`kerberos`
2. Navigate to the `Rhoas-kafka-sre` realm and then to users in the sidebar on the left.
3. Create the new user by clicking on the add user button on the right-hand side
4. Give the user a username and any other information you want to add. Make sure the user enabled slider is set to on.
+
image::images/add_user.png[]
+
5. Once you click save, you will be able to give the user credentials. This is done by clicking the credentials tab and giving them a temporary password which the user changes when they first log in.
+
The temporary password that new users should be assigned can be found in https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/managed-services/show/rts/production_data_plane_clusters_temp_password[Vault]. The username and password can be distributed to the user over Instant Messaging (e.g. Google Hangouts).
+
image::images/add_creds.png[]

=== Giving the user permission in OSD data plane cluster
1. To give the users permissions, you will need ocm permissions to log in as the service account that created the data plane
* Prod: `ocm login --url=https://api.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>`
* Stage: `ocm login --url=https://api.stage.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>`
2. Add or remove a user in the user.yaml file
3. `chmod +x permissions.sh`
4. `./permissions.sh -a` to add users
5. `./permissions.sh -r` to remove users

== Validate
1. Check that the users have been created using the ocm get command from the SOP doc.
2. Make sure the users can log in to the data plane cluster using the kafka_sre idp option
3. Ensure they have the relevant permissions in the cluster by checking the groups in the user management tab of the cluster

== Troubleshooting
1. If people are unable to login ensure the username specified in SSO is the same as the one your giving permissions to in `user.json`
