sops/configuring_osd_clusters_in_kas_fleet_manager.asciidoc, before:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
// end header
= Configure OSD Clusters in Kafka Service Fleet Manager

toc::[]

== Description

This SOP outlines the process of configuring data plane OSD clusters within kas-fleet-manager which includes adding/removing OSD clusters and marking a cluster as unschedulable.

== Prerequisites
* https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[Production AWS account ID and osdCcsAdmin credentials]
** aws.accountid
** aws.accesskey
** aws.secretaccesskey
* https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[OCM credentials to a user in the production organisation]
** ocm-service.clientId
** ocm-service.clientSecret
* https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/[jq] installed

== Create the OSD cluster
1. Set the configuration
+
[source,sh]
----
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=<REPLACE_ME>
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<REPLACE_ME>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<REPLACE_ME>
export NUM_COMPUTE_NODES=60
----
2. Login as the production service account
+
[source,sh]
----
ocm login --url=https://api.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>
----
3. Create the OSD cluster
+
[source,sh]
----
cat << EOF | ocm post /api/clusters_mgmt/v1/clusters | jq ' .name, .id, .multi_az, .cloud_provider.id, .region.id '
{"name":"mk-$(date +'%m%d-%H%M%S')","region":{"id":"us-east-1"},"nodes":{"compute_machine_type":{"id":"m5.4xlarge"},"compute":$NUM_COMPUTE_NODES},"managed":true,"cloud_provider":{"id":"aws"},"multi_az":true,"node_drain_grace_period":{"value":60,"unit":"minutes"},"product":{"id":"osd"},"ccs":{"enabled":true,"disable_scp_checks":false},"aws":{"access_key_id":"$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID","account_id":"$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID","secret_access_key":"$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"}}
EOF
----

== Add the OSD cluster to the kas-fleet-manager production configuration
1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] with the OSD cluster details
** https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/merge_requests/17711[Example MR as reference]
+
[source,yaml]
----
CLUSTER_LIST:
  - name: cluster-name
    cluster_id: 1jp6kdr7k0sjbe5adck2prjur8f39378
    cloud_provider: aws
    region: us-east-1
    multi_az: true
    schedulable: true # change this to false if you do not want the cluster to be schedulable
    kafka_instance_limit: 150 # change this to match any value of configuration
----
2. Ping the control plane team in the "MK - Control Plane" gchat room to get the MR reviewed and merged

== Marking an OSD cluster as unschedulable 
Unschedulable will stop any new Kafka instances being provisioned on this OSD cluster.

1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and change the `schedulable` field to false for the correct OSD cluster

== Setting the maximum number of Kafkas per OSD cluster
1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and change the `kafka_instance_limit` field to the number of Kafkas you would like the maximum to be for the correct OSD cluster

== Removing an OSD cluster from production
1. Verify all Kafka instances on the OSD cluster have been fully removed
2. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and remove the entry for the correct OSD cluster
3. Wait 60 seconds and verify the OSD cluster is deleting through the OCM CLI or UI


== Troubleshooting
None.

Commit message:

SOP for creating a read-only group and adding users

sops/configuring_osd_clusters_in_kas_fleet_manager.asciidoc, after:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
// end header
= Configure OSD Clusters in Kafka Service Fleet Manager

toc::[]

== Description

This SOP outlines the process of configuring data plane OSD clusters within kas-fleet-manager which includes adding/removing OSD clusters and marking a cluster as unschedulable.

== Prerequisites
* https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[Production AWS account ID and osdCcsAdmin credentials]
** aws.accountid
** aws.accesskey
** aws.secretaccesskey
* https://vault.devshift.net/ui/vault/secrets/app-interface/show/managed-service-api/production/service/credentials[OCM credentials to a user in the production organisation]
** ocm-service.clientId
** ocm-service.clientSecret
* https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/[jq] installed

== Create the OSD cluster
1. Set the configuration
+
[source,sh]
----
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=<REPLACE_ME>
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<REPLACE_ME>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<REPLACE_ME>
export NUM_COMPUTE_NODES=60
----
2. Login as the production service account
+
[source,sh]
----
ocm login --url=https://api.openshift.com --client-id=<client-id> --client-secret=<client-secret>
----
3. Create the OSD cluster
+
[source,sh]
----
cat << EOF | ocm post /api/clusters_mgmt/v1/clusters | jq ' .name, .id, .multi_az, .cloud_provider.id, .region.id '
{"name":"mk-$(date +'%m%d-%H%M%S')","region":{"id":"us-east-1"},"nodes":{"compute_machine_type":{"id":"m5.4xlarge"},"compute":$NUM_COMPUTE_NODES},"managed":true,"cloud_provider":{"id":"aws"},"multi_az":true,"node_drain_grace_period":{"value":60,"unit":"minutes"},"product":{"id":"osd"},"ccs":{"enabled":true,"disable_scp_checks":false},"aws":{"access_key_id":"$AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID","account_id":"$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID","secret_access_key":"$AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"}}
EOF
----

== Add the OSD cluster to the kas-fleet-manager production configuration
1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] with the OSD cluster details
** https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/merge_requests/17711[Example MR as reference]
+
[source,yaml]
----
CLUSTER_LIST:
  - name: cluster-name
    cluster_id: 1jp6kdr7k0sjbe5adck2prjur8f39378
    cloud_provider: aws
    region: us-east-1
    multi_az: true
    schedulable: true # change this to false if you do not want the cluster to be schedulable
    kafka_instance_limit: 150 # change this to match any value of configuration
----
2. Ping the control plane team in the "MK - Control Plane" gchat room to get the MR reviewed and merged

== Marking an OSD cluster as unschedulable 
Unschedulable will stop any new Kafka instances being provisioned on this OSD cluster.

1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and change the `schedulable` field to false for the correct OSD cluster

== Setting the maximum number of Kafkas per OSD cluster
1. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and change the `kafka_instance_limit` field to the number of Kafkas you would like the maximum to be for the correct OSD cluster

== Removing an OSD cluster from production
1. Verify all Kafka instances on the OSD cluster have been fully removed
2. Open an MR against the https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/service/app-interface/-/blob/master/data/services/managed-services/cicd/saas/saas-kas-fleet-manager.yaml[kas-fleet-manager saas file] and remove the entry for the correct OSD cluster
3. Wait 60 seconds and verify the OSD cluster is deleting through the OCM CLI or UI

== Creating a read-only group
NOTE: This section requires a user with cluster-admin permissions to complete. Please ask one of the RTS team members to complete this step.

1. A new group with a read-only cluster role is required to facilitate users requesting access to the cluster. Users are added to this group using https://github.com/bf2fc6cc711aee1a0c2a/kas-sre-sops/blob/main/sops/configuring_osd_clusters_in_kas_fleet_manager.asciidoc[this] SOP.
+
Log in to the cluster using the API token and run the following command.
+
[source,sh]
----
oc adm groups new mk-readonly-access
----
+
2. Add the `dedicated-readers` cluster role to the group. This role allows only `get`, `list`, and `watch` permissions on resources, with users also unable to view secrets.
+
----
oc adm policy add-cluster-role-to-group dedicated-readers mk-readonly-access
----

== Troubleshooting
None.
