sops/sso_realm_and_client_setup.asciidoc, before:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
= Creating a new Keycloak Realm and Client

toc::[]

== Description

This SOP outlines the process of creating a new Keycloak Realm and Client within the Managed Application Services (MAS) staging data plane cluster.

NOTE: This SOP is explicitly targeting the `mas-sso` cluster within the staging environment. If this SOP is being used to target a different cluster, ensure that the `GitHub` IDP is configured on the cluster, and the correct Keycloak URL is used in the `Accessing Keycloak` section.

== Prerequisites
1. You are a member of the https://github.com/rh-mk-running-the-service[rh-mk-running-the-service] GitHub Organisation

== Execute/Resolution
=== Accessing Keycloak
1. Log into MAS SSO via the `GitHub` IDP using the url in the SOP doc in the https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TtO6wLd1lz0XjYqOBjP9kgYFbOIXZDFlM_eib4H2egw/edit#[RTS] getting started guide:


=== Realm Creation
1. Hover your cursor over the top left corner drop-down menu in the Keycloak UI and click the `Add Realm` button
2. Select a name for your Realm and click the `Create` button

=== Client Creation
1. From the navigational menu to the left on the Keycloak UI, click `Clients`, then the `Create` button to the right of the client list
2. Select a `Client ID` value, and click `Save`
3. Create a new client by specifying a `Client ID`, and using the configuration values in the screenshot below, clicking the `Save` button once complete:
+
image::images/keycloak_client_settings.png[]
4. Specific roles are required by the newly created client. From the `Client` menu, select the newly created client, then `Service Account Roles` on the far right tabular headings
5. Click on the `Client Roles` drop-down menu and search for `realm management`
6. Select the `create-client` and `manage-clients` roles from `Available Roles` and add them as assigned roles, as displayed below:

image::images/keycloak_client_roles.png[]
== Validate
== Troubleshooting
1. The error below will be displayed if an attempt is made to log in to the User-SSO Keycloak route without clearing the browser cookies for the cluster
+
[source,sh]
----
{"error":"invalid_request","error_description":"The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once, or is otherwise malformed.","state":"<>.security-admin-console"}
----
+
To fix this issue, log out of the cluster and remove all cookies associated with the cluster from your browser (https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&hl=en-GB#zippy=%2Cdelete-cookies-from-a-site)[Clear Cookies in Google Chrome]). Once complete, attempt to log in to the User-SSO Keycloak route again.

Commit message:

adding extra step to realm setup sop

sops/sso_realm_and_client_setup.asciidoc, after:

// begin header
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title: pass:[<b>Table of Contents</b>]
= Creating a new Keycloak Realm and Client

toc::[]

== Description

This SOP outlines the process of creating a new Keycloak Realm and Client within the Managed Application Services (MAS) staging data plane cluster.

NOTE: This SOP is explicitly targeting the `mas-sso` cluster within the staging environment. If this SOP is being used to target a different cluster, ensure that the `GitHub` IDP is configured on the cluster, and the correct Keycloak URL is used in the `Accessing Keycloak` section.

== Prerequisites
1. You are a member of the https://github.com/rh-mk-running-the-service[rh-mk-running-the-service] GitHub Organisation

== Execute/Resolution
=== Accessing Keycloak
1. Log into MAS SSO via the `GitHub` IDP using the url in the SOP doc in the https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TtO6wLd1lz0XjYqOBjP9kgYFbOIXZDFlM_eib4H2egw/edit#[RTS] getting started guide:


=== Realm Creation
1. Hover your cursor over the top left corner drop-down menu in the Keycloak UI and click the `Add Realm` button
2. Select a name for your Realm and click the `Create` button

=== Client Creation
1. From the navigational menu to the left on the Keycloak UI, click `Clients`, then the `Create` button to the right of the client list
2. Select a `Client ID` value, and click `Save`
3. Create a new client by specifying a `Client ID`, and using the configuration values in the screenshot below, clicking the `Save` button once complete:
+
image::images/keycloak_client_settings.png[]
4. Specific roles are required by the newly created client. From the `Client` menu, select the newly created client, then `Service Account Roles` on the far right tabular headings
5. Click on the `Client Roles` drop-down menu and search for `realm management`
6. Select the `create-client` and `manage-clients` roles from `Available Roles` and add them as assigned roles, as displayed below:
image::images/keycloak_client_roles.png[]


=== Linking new Realm to the dataplane cluster
1. Change the current realm set up for the data plane cluster and replace the current realm credentials. The relevant files and credential locations can be found in the URL & creds doc.

Note: Once the realm and client have been created you can add users by following this https://github.com/RHCloudServices/kafka-monitoring-stuff/blob/master/sops/adding_user_to_sso.asciidoc[SOP]

== Validate
== Troubleshooting
1. The error below will be displayed if an attempt is made to log in to the User-SSO Keycloak route without clearing the browser cookies for the cluster
+
[source,sh]
----
{"error":"invalid_request","error_description":"The request is missing a required parameter, includes an invalid parameter value, includes a parameter more than once, or is otherwise malformed.","state":"<>.security-admin-console"}
----
+
To fix this issue, log out of the cluster and remove all cookies associated with the cluster from your browser (https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&hl=en-GB#zippy=%2Cdelete-cookies-from-a-site)[Clear Cookies in Google Chrome]). Once complete, attempt to log in to the User-SSO Keycloak route again.
